Overall Video Guidelines
Ensure the Plate Heading is as short as possible (cannot exceed two lines).

Stick to the word guidelines as font sizes are fixed.

Headings must be ALL CAPS.

Subheadings must be Title Case.

Description Text must be Sentence case.

Use line icons; black fill icons should be avoided.

Template No. 1 - OG Types (Few bullets)
Heading can only be a maximum of two lines (not more than 32 letters).

Points or sub-points cannot exceed 3.

Icons can only be replaced when using numbers or Short Forms; otherwise, they cannot be replaced.

Images cannot be used.

If there are more than 4 types, the first point can slide out, and the total can be split into two plates.

You need to provide icons.

Template No. 2 - OG Types (Many bullets)
Heading can only be a maximum of two lines (not more than 32 characters).

Points or sub-points can be as many as needed; previous points will slide up.

Icons can only be replaced when using numbers or Short Forms; otherwise, they cannot be replaced.

Images cannot be used.

You need to provide icons.

Template No. 4 & 4A - OG Process (One line description / Few bullets)
If pointers are used, align them to the text.

Maximum of 2 lines of pointers allowed. Pointers should be in bullets.

Heading can only be a maximum of two lines (not more than 20 letters).

If there are more than 4 types, the first type can slide out.

Images cannot be used.

Template No. 5 - OG Process (Few bullets)
Heading can only be a maximum of two lines (not more than 32 letters).

Can be used with or without icons, depending on the text.

If there are more than 2 pointers, icons can be removed.

Pointers can be faded to fit additional points.

Images cannot be used.

If there are more than 4 types, the first type can slide out.

Template No. 6 - OG Process (Many bullets)
Heading can only be a maximum of two lines (not more than 32 letters).

Points or sub-points can be as many as needed; previous points will slide up.

If there are more than 4 types, the first type can slide out.

Icons and images cannot be used.

Template No. 7 - OG Differentiation (Only text)
Each point can be a maximum of 3 lines.

Cannot have images or icons.

If there are more than 4 differences, the first 1 or 2 points can slide out, or the total can be split into two plates.

Template No. 8 - OG Differentiation (Topic/Image)
Images with little text can be used.

Must be used for differences only.

The heading of the two sides should not exceed 3 words.

Description and pointers (maximum 2-3 lines) can be added below the image.

Template No. 9 - OG Timeline (1 line description)
No pointers can be added.

Text can be replaced with images.

Can have more than 5 timestamps.

Template No. 10 - OG Timeline (Horizontal with bullets)
Icons and images cannot be used.

Heading cannot exceed 32 letters.

Can have as many points as needed.

Can have more than 5 timestamps.

Template No. 11 - OG (Hierarchy)
Heading must be ALL CAPS, Text must be Title Case.

Images cannot be used.

Points cannot be more than two lines.

Can have as many points as needed.

Template No. 12, 13 & 14 - OG Graphs (Line, Bar, Pie)
X-Y Axis Description must be Sentence case (for Line/Bar).

Sub-points can appear on the right side.

Needs a heading.

Ensure the source is provided for graphs (use "Courtesy: Company name" if a print advertisement is used).

Template No. 15 - OG (% Increase)
X-Y Axis Description must be Sentence case.

Sub-points can appear on the right side.

Needs a heading.

Ensure the source is provided (use "Courtesy: Company name" if a print advertisement is used).

Template No. 16 - Split screen (Types with description)
Can be used without a subheading (centre aligned).

Can have pointers.

Description cannot exceed 3 lines.

Images cannot be used.

If there are more than 4 types, the first type can slide out, and the total can be split into two plates.

Need to provide icons or use numbers.

Template No. 17 - Split screen & OG (Bullets with many sub-bullets)
Cannot be used if the heading exceeds two lines.

Can have images.

If there are more than 5 types, the first type can slide out, and the total can be split into two plates.

Images can be used inside the sub-text box, or outside it (but only for a few seconds).

Template No. 18 - Split screen & OG (Question and answer)
Questions must be Sentence case.

Cannot be used if the question exceeds two lines.

If there are more than 3 questions, the first can slide out, and the total can be split into two plates.

Only use this when both questions and answers need to be shown; otherwise, opt for the Question box.

One question can have 2-3 answers. The box will extend to accommodate the answer.

Template No. 20 - Split screen & OG (2 Types with few bullets)
If only a description/paragraph is used, centre align it. If pointers are used, left-align them.

Cannot be used if the description exceeds five lines.

Heading cannot exceed 32 characters or two lines.

Template No. 21 - Split screen (3 types)
Heading should be a maximum of two words.

Icons can be replaced with a short description (though not recommended).

Subheading inside the circle can be a maximum of 2-3 words.

Use OG template if there are subpointers.

Template No. 22 - Split Screen & OG
Heading should be a maximum of two words.

Icons cannot be omitted, but they can be replaced with numbers.

Can show a maximum of five at a time; otherwise, the first two will slide up.

Word count should not be exceeded (Maximum 10 words).

Template No. 23 - Split screen & OG (Process with 1 line)
Heading formatting varies: Title Case for short words, Sentence case for longer sentences.

Heading should be a maximum of two lines.

Icons can be replaced with numbers.

Can show a maximum of five at a time; otherwise, the first will slide up.

Best used for showing a process or flow.

Template No. 24 - Glassbox & Split Screen (Percentage)
Heading is only allowed when using the Split Screen version (it is optional).

Highlight words need to be provided in the PPS.

Template No. 25 - Glassbox (Company logo)
Used only for logos and images.

No heading or description can be used.

Template No. 26 - Question Box (Standard & OG)
Question can have a maximum of 4 lines.

Template No. 27 - Definition plate
Subheading is optional.

Highlight words need to be provided in the PPS.

The vector on the right should be provided in the PPS.

Pointers can be used, but they are not recommended.

Template No. 28 - Quote plate (Standard, A, OG)
Keywords should be in black and bold.

Do not use a full stop at the end.

Highlight words need to be provided in the PPS.

Image of the speaker (quoting) cannot be added.

Template No. 29 - Takeaway plate (Standard, Split screen, OG)
Headings are not allowed.

Highlight words need to be provided in the PPS.

No full stops.

The takeaway cannot exceed 14-18 words (can exceed this limit only when using the OG version).

Template No. 40 - Image with Description
If it is an image of a person, there must be a label with their name.

Can be used universally; place the source at the bottom if applicable.

Text can be formatted as pointers.

Text inside the box does not need an ending period.

Template No. 41 - Pointers
Used for text-oriented graphic plates.

Cannot contain sub-points.

Maximum of 2 lines for one pointer.

If there are more than 6 points, the first point can slide up.

Soft Skills Template 2
Maximum of 2 lines (approximately 25 words).

Mindmap & Summary Graphics
NMIMS Mind MAP: Circle is animation-intensive and dynamic. Specific to NMIMS. Not effective when professors are speaking.

IMT Mind MAP: Used only for module mapping (for every course). No text inside the circle; keep it as a full-caps heading on top.

Module Completion: Segment turns green to indicate a finished module.

Identified Problem/Solution: Mindmaps and summaries should avoid being text-heavy and still. Use engaging templates that mention learning outcomes, and ensure summary videos loop back to the mindmap for a bigger picture.

Importance Plate
Appears at the start of every Mindmap to state the importance of studying the module.

Description can be a maximum of 2 lines.

Word limit is 10-12 words maximum per point.

Template No. 30 - Box Plate (Horizontal)
Heading cannot be more than 32 characters.

Sub-pointers must be Sentence case and limited to 5 words.

Can only have 4 or fewer boxes.

Template No. 31 - Box Plate (Vertical)
Only for LLM.

Heading cannot be more than 32 characters.

Can have sub-pointers.

Can only have 3 or fewer boxes.

Template No. 32 - Fact/Background Plate (OG & Split Screen)
Heading cannot be more than 32 characters.

It is mandatory to have a Fact/Background.

Can have sub-pointers.

Template No. 33 - Fact Plate (OG & Split Screen)
Heading cannot be more than 32 characters.

It is mandatory to have a Fact/Background.

Can have as many sub-points as needed.

Template No. 35 - Split Screen (Glassbox)
Text/Description should be Sentence case.

If it is only one sentence, it must be Sentence case.

Template No. 36 - OG (Heavy Text Plate)
Heading cannot be more than 32 characters.

Designed exclusively for text-heavy content.